[[_TOC_]]

# Task 1
* Create your own Web App (Flask Node JS Etc.)
* Create a dockerfile for your app
* Verify it runs locally
* Push it to ACR
* Deploy it as a container app in Azure as per Exercise 7 and see if you can access it form the internet

## Hints for containers you build yourself to run in Azure App Service
* Azure App Service supports containers running on ports `80` and `8080` only (by default).
* If your app uses something else, e.g. its Python Flask and uses `5000` by default, you'll need to configure the app to use either `80` or `8080` instead.
* Do not forget to add the `EXPOSE` declaration to the applications `Dockerfile` for the port you've chosen to bind the application to.
* If you need to bind to a host (e.g. node.js Express needs this), use `0.0.0.0`. This means _listen on all interfaces_ and is necessary due to the way the container will run in Azure. Any other value like `localhost` or `127.0.0.1` _might_ work locally, but it won't when it gets to Azure.


# Task 2

* Build a docker compose file that starts up PostGres DB
* The Compose file should include a PSQL postgres client container. 
* The PostGres DB should automatically create a new database (you can name this as you like)
* The PSQL client container should mount a local volume where SQL files can be created and SQL output saved.
* Add a third container. Instead of using an existing image for this container, it should reference a local Docker file that will be built and started when the compose file is launched. The container can do anything you like (maybe print to the console)
* You should be able to launch all of these containers at once using `docker-compose up`
* You should be able to exec into the PSQL container and connect to the DB using the `psql` command

# Stretch
Create a Dummy DB schema and apply it to the DB using the PSQL container (you can put these in the local volume)

# Hints

* Study the documentation on the dockerHub pages for your images
* Read the Docker Compose Docs - https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/
* Have fun - Feel free to experiment
