[[_TOC_]]

# Running Multiple Containers

Docker compose provides a simple mechanism to run multiple containers on a single machine. It is a separate executable to run, and is controlled by a yaml file.

## Prep

1. Create a directory in your workspace
2. Within the directory create file called `docker-compose.yml` (Case Sensitive)

## What is a docker compose file?

A Docker Compose file describes how to run multiple containers.

## A docker compose file with a single image

The docker compose file below will start up a single [Redis](https://redis.io/) instance. Redis is an open source (BSD licensed), in-memory data structure store, used as a database, cache and message broker.

The different sections of the file are:

- `version` - the version of docker compose to use
- `services` - the different containers to run

```yaml
version: '3'

services:
  redis:
    image: redis
    container_name: day1-redis
    ports:
      - "6379:6379"
```

To run, amend the `docker-compose.yml` file as above, cd to the directory, and run `docker-compose up`. This will start the container in your console.

Once it's running, have a look in the docker dashboard, or use the docker commands below (in another window) to validate it's running correctly.

- `docker ps` - show running containers
- `docker network list` - show networks

Press `ctrl-c` to stop docker compose running.
You can also run it in the background by running `docker-compose up -d`. This will run each container in the background. You can stop it by running `docker-compose down`.

## Run a second container

Redis by itself isn't that useful. We will now add redis commander, which will allow us to see inside redis.

Add the following to the services section:

```yaml
  redis-commander:
    image: rediscommander/redis-commander
    container_name: day1-redis-commander
    ports:
      - "5001:8081"
    environment:
      REDIS_HOST: day1-redis
    depends_on:
      - redis
```

If you run this with `docker-compose up -d`, you should see two containers running. You can browse to <http://localhost:5001>, and view redis commander, which will show you redis.

## Bonus

* Add your container from the previous exercise to the docker compose file.

### Useful Links

[Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
[Redis](https://redis.io/)
[Redis Commander](https://hub.docker.com/r/rediscommander/redis-commander)

---

We're done for now! We've explored the basics of containerization using Docker, pulling existing containers and creating our own.

Now, let's package up our own Go app!

[Containerizing our Go Application](https://github.com/bjssacademy/go-containerization/blob/main/readme.md)
